All right, it is like according to Dzogchen for the international level technology, bodhijattas,
bodhijattas.
How is it here? I mean that you have this sadhana and translate it.
Some sadhana are pre-moduleed pure and as a pure Buddha village.
In order to realize this, I developed bodhijattas.
So this is bodhijattas, two lines of bodhijattas.
Now I talk really again, of course we all know that bodhijattas are not something new things I am
going to talk about.
But in a way it is reminding to each other and that is our practices.
Bodhijattas need to be reminded to all the time to us.
Even somebody is not reminding to you, we should remind ourselves of bodhijattas.
If we do that, what is known as mindfulness, we will be making, we will improve, we will restate
that.
We will glorify, we will repolish into ourselves. That is mindfulness.
The benefit of mindfulness is in our scientists in this country or the world, everyone is talking
now quite good amount of mindfulness.
Even in the personess levels, how much they talk. So therefore it is reminding and we remind this,
it is a reminder of the bodhijattas.
That means a reminder of love and compassion. Versatile is a super mind for us, really.
Thinking of love, compassion, relaxing on that state of nature, that state of mindfulness is a big
powerful, big benefit for anybody.
So therefore it is reminding, it is more important. So therefore again essence of the bodhijattas
is love.
In the great Master, the master, Madhir said, Madhir said, has two, two, with compassion,
developing the bodhijattas, with compassion, developing the bodhijattas.
So that means, and then again Gurbam Masambha said, is teaching on the Lamanpuri Cheepunga.
Graduation, a dual hip of the graduation path. Part is the Gurbam Masambha is teaching.
And there Gurbam Masambha said, love and compassion, Muslims are the Buddha mind.
They are the Buddha mind. That means, love is Buddha, compassion is Buddha and wisdom is Buddha.
When you develop that, you are in enlightened states. That's what we live in Gurbam Masambha said.
So therefore, particularly when we develop compassion, again it teaches all the bodhijattas.
If we summarize the bodhijattas, to kind of bring down to the one single state, what is bodhijattas
?
Bodhijattas is compassion. It's a compassion. Essence of bodhijattas is compassion.
And a compassion to home, to all the living beings, to all the living beings without any discrim
inations.
That wisdom is completely connected, oh sorry, that compassion is completely connected with wisdom.
Wisdom, when we have the compassion, according to the teaching, it brings the great wisdom, smart
ness, intelligence.
Because when we have compassion, our mind is more calm and peaceful.
And therefore, there is no kind of like blockage of that.
And the wisdom, nature of the mind or the awareness shines so beautifully, and the wisdom comes
together with compassion.
So, for that reason, Grand Master Mathieu said that.
And bodhijattas is benefit for all living beings, and with wisdom, then develop the bodhijattas.
That means, you will have to benefit to help with all the living beings.
But in order to fully belong to help with the living beings, you have to get more strength.
For instance, even if we want to help with all the beings, we don't have the really calm ability to
help with everyone's.
Everyone's. It's just a good heart.
So not just a good heart, if we like to more actively help with the beings, then you should become
the Buddha.
Get enlightened.
So therefore, by the comparison in the teachings, by the comparison of the focus to all the living
beings,
by the wisdom, you are more projecting to the enlightenment.
All focus on enlightenment.
Enlightenment.
Why? Because let's benefit, help with the beings.
So therefore, developing bodhijattas.
Bodhijattas is then benefit for all living beings.
Anyway, develop the bodhijattas, as you all know, to bodhijattas.
We have the biggest attempt and the real truth.
Wishing bodhijattas, actualizing bodhijattas.
And then, firstly, sincerely concerning thought, comparing it to all living beings.
Then we use kind of a way that is a little bit more kind of a highlighter of the qualities, those
are known as the poor, boundless, you all.
Bondless love, boundless compassion, boundless words.
Equals and boundless equinivities, those are the poor, boundless.
Why is called boundless?
Because many reasons is known as is boundless.
Because generally, when you think of the loving-kindness, there is no boundless.
Our love has no boundless. True love.
Only ego met the boundless.
Grasping met the boundless.
Similarly, compassion has no boundless.
Rejoice or joy has no boundless.
And the equanimity has no boundless.
For that reason is called boundless.
Then another reason of the body is called boundless because power of is boundless.
Benefit is boundless.
Our love is boundless or benefit, result is boundless.
And similarly, compassion, joy, equanimity.
That benefit is so powerful, so is boundless, it can't measure.
Even the greatest teacher, Balajiak Devani said, he can count every drop of the oceans.
Overcomes, but cannot count pure power, pure compassion.
So, the power of that, he cannot count.
Even Buddha said, has no, no, the limitless powers, boundless powers.
They, how much, how, where that power is going is also boundless.
All the beings, beings of six realms, is going to thus all beings.
And that being has a limitation, boundaries.
According to Buddha's teaching, there is no boundaries, no numbers, boundless beings.
So boundless compassion or boundless bodhicata and boundless power and outreach into the boundless
beings.
That is what is called boundless.
In other words, subject is boundless, object is boundless or limitless.
That's really how it is.
So, when we think of this bodhicata, or love and compassion, then you know how powerful it is.
There are so many beautiful stories that you know.
The power of love and compassion, purify their obscuration, disease, sickness, heal, and achieve
the highest realization.
So, one up and up, really did, so many beautifuls.
Even in the teachings, the life story of the Buddha chapter, many, many years of going traveling to
the jungle,
there are so many pours and snacks and all that, but when you meditate or be in loving kindness,
all those pours and snacks become not edited, become calm, and the Buddha works beautifully.
That is how powerful it is.
Then in the story of the new old man, the Maiti-ness, he is trying to meet or see the Buddha Maiti-
ness.
So many years, one after another, he couldn't really practice.
In very later he did, he couldn't read.
And I think he called it the teaching.
For 12 years, he couldn't really see even good signs of the dreams, but even in practice,
the great Master Asaengar, who was predicted by Buddha Shakyamuni,
that Master practicing Maitriya to be behold in the Dzimod teachings,
for 12 years, he didn't got even signs, good signs, big signs.
But because of his compassion, compassion, so strong, compared to the old sicknesses of God,
that moment, because of that, Maitriya appeared right in front of him as glowing sun in front of
the Asaengars.
That has power of the compassion.
Instantly purified, whatever the blockage that he is not beholding the Maiti-ness,
is instantly turned on, purified and behold.
That's how it is.
It is so many.
And then, of course, the most powerful to put in Kavai, the Obscureture,
accumulated in Maitriya, is a Maitriya.
For that reason, the great Master Asaengar said,
"If you have one thing, you will get enlightenment without any doubt.
If you don't have one thing, you will not get enlightenment,
no matter how many practices or skills and techniques you receive.
What is that technique?
One thing is, if that is bodhicam."
So therefore, I pay homage to the bodhicam.
I pay respect for homage, mostly to the bodhicam.
And the great Master Asaengar did this, his famous teachings,
at the beginning of his famous teaching, he wrote what he said.
He said, "I posted to the compassion."
He said, "Why?"
He said, "Because where the bodhisattvas come from, because of compassion.
Where the bodhisattvas come from, from bodhisattvas."
So jumping down to how the Buddha can become Buddha, because of his compassion.
Therefore, I homemade you, I posted to compassion.
That is what he said.
Therefore, this compassion is not just a selected group of heads.
We all have that today.
That's why the great teacher of bodhicam said,
"Every living being has equally Buddha nature."
"Everyone has love, everyone has a compassion, everyone has a wisdom."
So if we highly like to glorify and move forward with that qualities,
then enlightenment is right here, right here.
So that is the general kind of way.
Then there is the wishing bodhicata connected with the actualizing bodhicata.
And the actualizing bodhicata,
then again there is many, many actualizing bodhicata.
I did not recall it, but there are so many ways.
But summarizing in the six paramatas by the great Buddha Shakyam,
the six paramatas, those are really actualizing bodhicatas.
So those are the generositys, the self-centered paramatas,
generositys, morality, and then the patience,
then the effort, then the concentration, and then the worship.
Those are the six paramatas.
Each of those, whatever we do with bodhicata,
it becomes the actualizing bodhicata.
And then, for example, our practice meditation is also the actualizing bodhicata
because it is concentration, it is the wisdom practice.
And we kind of activate our bodhicata more,
and in practice it becomes one of the powerful, actualizing bodhicata practices
and concentration and meditation.
Each concentration, six paramatas is also not completely isolated from six individuals.
Each has all six of those, six of those in bodhic.
So all that really is wonderful, beautiful.
Then through that we get enlightenment.
And with those are the general understanding of the bodhicata.
And now particularly understanding, or particularly this bodhicata,
and according here.
And again, this is the inner thought level for the zouki level.
In the zouki level, everything is pure, pure.
In the zouki or inner thought level, in the absolute level, everything is pure.
Relative root, everything is pure, both relative and absolute pure.
In the Mahayava thinking or setting, on the absolute or relative level,
everything is a three wager status.
On the absolute level, that all is emptiness.
All economic status is emptiness.
Even in the three wager status, there is nothing substantial, solid, existent.
It is all great economic status.
Absolute and relative are equally same status.
There is nothing, there is no individual absolute is here, relative is here.
Both are in the body.
So relative level is three wager status.
And absolute status is totally economic status of the great emptiness.
That is the how it is.
And that is also our mind is totally that status.
And therefore, all the poems and songs and spits, everything is pure and existent.
So for that reason here, say, samsara, nirvana, primodulity, pure.
And that is again more highlight, if I say, in Goyagar, what the other one says.
All poems are enlightened.
Five skandhas, five aggregate is the five buddhas.
Five element is the five human buddhas.
One day Goyagar said again, even as Buddha tried to look something that is not enlightened, not
going to find.
Buddha never pwned anything is not enlightened.
Everything is enlightened.
Then why we don't see?
Because the cadence of the dualities, grasping, block that region, that will, due to our grasping.
Clinging.
That is what we get in more kind of grasping, thick clings and emotions.
And bouncing back and forth, just always kind of tingled with that emotions we are.
Then we have a lot of food.
Ego is narrow mind.
Grasping is narrow mind.
And duality is narrow mind.
Then it makes everything narrow, narrow and narrow.
And we call it ourself.
By ourself.
Ourself.
We don't see the panoramic purity view as it is.
Reality level, it is pure.
Pure.
Our mind is pure.
Our poems are pure, everything.
And then of course you all know those in the read like books, so that the samsara and the nirvana
is pure.
And the samsara and nirvana is just like when we are all in duality, that is called samsara.
When you are free from the duality, then the samsara is nirvana.
For that reason, the great master, again, K.D. Pardek, when he talked about what the master, great
master, Maharaja says.
What is the distinction of the samsara and nirvana is dualities.
When duality is or grasping is dissolved, that moment, samsara and nirvana are merged.
Merged, there is no difference.
No difference.
That is what really it is.
So it is pure, it is completely pure.
Part of that beautiful status.
In order to break that realization, that is what it is.
But those people, such as we all, the beings of six realms, they don't have that realization.
They are struggling with their own creations, their own emotions, which is created by themselves.
They are bouncing, they are going to nightmares of their own nightmares.
And they all experience that.
And therefore, I am going to make strong courage and confidence and commitment.
I am going with that realization to benefit all three beings.
So that is really known as bodhicchara in the breathing.
That is the absolute state of talking bodhicchara.
The reality level is a perfect view, but Santhi means not realizing that.
In order to break that realization, I am going to develop the bodhicchara.
Love and inspiration onboard each other.
So that.
And how long will we take that bodhicchara?
That is known as bodhicchara, until we become neutral.
We take over.
Then, not just only that, but according to the teaching,
until the same beings, all are completely enlightened.
Until we keep this bodhicchara.
And those are known as shipper-like bodhicchara.
Shipper-like.
According to the teaching, I am not according to the teaching,
in the samsara, but how they do it.
That sisra is shipper when they are completely grudged,
grudged in the old animals or yap curves.
When they put the perfectly safe places of the old animals,
then finally they rest.
They relax.
Similarly, those great bodhisattvas, such as mijujiri,
ava-lokidihara, vedya-bani, jata-ga-naukanyam, poussai-nyam,
all those, bodhisattvas, they are like untranscented beings.
They are going to continue to be as bodhisattva.
Untranscented beings reach enlightenment.
They continue to be as great bodhisattva,
to benefit, to help, to outreach to every living beings.
That is about the duration of bodhicchara.
I said that until enlightenment,
bodhicchara is until we keep that coordinate in the commitment,
until every living being has become the bodhicchara,
and discovered and nurtured.
So that is the brili about bodhicchara.
Bodhicchara, and I will stop here,
and if you have some questions, please discuss.